.TH TAG "1" "April 2011" "" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
tag \- simple yet powerful keyword based file searching

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tag
\fI-t\fR \fIFILE\fR|\fIDIRECTORY\fR [[\fIMODIFIER\fR]\fIPATTERN\fR]...
.br
.B tag
\fI-f\fR \fIDIRECTORY\fR [[\fIMODIFIER\fR]\fIPATTERN\fR]...
.br
.B tag
\fI-q\fR \fIFILE\fR|\fIDIRECTORY\fR
.br
.B tag
\fILONG-OPTION\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.TP
\fB\-t\fR
add or remove keywords associated with a specified file or directory
.TP
\fB\-f\fR
search for files or directories that have been tagged with specified keywords
.TP
\fB\-q\fR
query what keywords are associated with a file or directory
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
display this help and exit
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
output version information and exit

.SH KEYWORD MODIFIERS
When performing file tagging and searching, keywords can optionally be prefixed by a modifier character. These modifiers will change how 
.B tag 
interprets the keyword for the specified operation.

.SS "File Tagging"
.TP
.B +KEYWORD (or just KEYWORD)
will add the keyword
.B KEYWORD 
to the specified file if it has not already been added.
.TP
.B -PATTERN
will remove any keywords that match
.B PATTERN
from the specified file or directory.
.TP
.B ~PATTERN
will remove any keyword that do not match
.B PATTERN
from the specified file or directory.

.SS "File Searching"

.TP
.B +PATTERN
Says that a file must be tagged with a keyword that matches
.B PATTERN

.TP
.BR -PATTERN
Says that a file must not be tagged with a keyword that matches
.BR PATTERN

.TP
.B ~PATTERN (or just PATTERN)
Says that a file can be tagged with a keyword that matches
.B PATTERN

.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "File Searching"
.TP
.B "$ tag -f ./ +tag1 +tag2"
will list all files that are tagged with 
.B tag1
\fIand\fR
.B tag2
inside the current directory.

.TP
.B "$ tag -f ./ ~tag1 tag2"
will list all files that are tagged with 
.B tag1
\fIor\fR
.B tag2
under the current directory.

.TP
.B "$ tag -f ./ '*'"
will list \fIall\fR files that are tagged under the current directory.

.TP
.B "$ tag -f ./ '*' -tag1"
will list all files that are not tagged with 
.B tag1
inside the current directory.



.SH AUTHOR
Written by Josh Komoroske.
.br
tag source code repository: <https://github.com/joshdk/tag>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2011 Josh Komoroske
.br
License BSD:
.br
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL JOSHUA KOMOROSKE BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

